Binder (#1)
ome/omero-guide-trackmate: docs/trackmate_ui.rst

Analyze OMERO timelapse images using the TrackMate User Interface
=================================================================

In this example we open in Fiji an image stored in an OMERO server and use `TrackMate <https://imagej.net/TrackMate>`_ to analyze it.

Description
-----------

In this section, we show how to use TrackMate via its User Interface.
The manual steps are essential to determine the suitable parameters to analyze the images. Note that when using the TrackMate User Interface, the generated tracks **cannot** be saved as ROIs into OMERO.server.

Setup
-----

> - Install Fiji on the local machine with the OMERO.insight-ij plugin. The installation instructions can be found at `here <https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/en/latest/fiji/docs/installation.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install Fiji on the local machine with the OMERO.insight-ij plugin. The installation instructions can be found in the `Fiji guide <https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/en/latest/fiji/docs/installation.html>`_.
```

Resources
---------

-  We use an artificial track image \ https://samples.fiji.sc/FakeTracks.tif.

Step-by-Step
------------

> We will use the manual workflow to explain the steps of the script below.

Reviewer: There is no script below here. Maybe this sentence is stale and should be removed ?

#. Launch Fiji.

#. Go to *Plugins > OMERO > Connect* To OMERO. This will show a login
   screen where you can enter the name of the server to connect to,
   the username and password. The OMERO plugin will allow you to
   browse your data in a similar manner to OMERO.web.

#. In the OMERO login dialog, click the wrench icon\ |image1| and then
   add the server address in the dialog. By default, only "localhost"
   is listed. Click on the *plus* icon to add a new line to the list
   and type into the line the server address.

> #. Click Apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click *Apply*.
```

   .. image:: images/manual2.png

#.  Enter your credentials and click *Login*.

> #. Browse the Dataset `artificial-trackmate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Browse the Dataset where your image to be tracked is located, e.g. `artificial-trackmate`.
```

#. Double-click on the `FakeTracks.tif` Image to open it in Fiji.

   #. Make sure it is opened using the ``Hyperstack`` viewer. This option depends on what you did last time when using your Fiji.

   #. In case you are not sure, Open ``Plugins > Bio-Formats > Bio-Formats importer`` and then select any image on your local computer to open it in Fiji. In the popup dialog, in the top left dropdown menu.

      .. image:: images/Trackmate1.png

>    #. Select ``Hyperstack`` and click ``OK``. Then, close and re-open the FakeTracks.tif Image from OMERO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Select ``Hyperstack`` and click ``OK``. Then, close and re-open the `FakeTracks.tif` Image from OMERO.
```

#. Go to ``Plugins > Tracking > TrackMate``.

#. Click ``Next`` in the first dialog that pops up.

> #. A new dialog pop ups indicating to select a detector. Select the ``DoG detector``. Click ``Next``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. A new dialog pops up indicating to select a detector. Select the ``DoG detector``. Click ``Next``.
```
